.ve-media https://api.artic.edu/api/v1/artworks/47669/manifest.json
.ve-header "Landscape Paintings of George Inness"
George Inness sought to use painting as poetry, and aspired not to capture a landscape as seen by the naked eye, but to portray the many moods of mother nature. The artist would say that "the true purpose of the painter is simply to reproduce in other minds the impression which a scene has made upon him... to awaken emotion," (Art Institute of Chicago). In other words, his landscapes were an effort to show people how the world around him made him feel.
#A Marine
.ve-media https://api.artic.edu/api/v1/artworks/68792/manifest.json right
In his seascape painting* A Marine*, George Inness depicts the ocean as beauty to be seen in caution, exemplified by the choppiness of the water depicted in his vigorous brushstrokes gives light of the sea's dramatic nature. Beyond the greens and grays of the grim weather can be seen an orange and yellow illumination of the sun, accentuating distant ships in the harbor of a town across the water. Inness brings life to the canvas with the textures of the boulders along the shore, allowing the viewer to know the wet patches from the dry, as well as the ability to portray algae on the rocky surface. The overall moodiness of the painting provides captivation through the energy and excitment of danger, as well as the muted romantic color palette allowing wariness to be beautiful. 
#The Home of the Heron
.ve-media https://api.artic.edu/api/v1/artworks/64724/manifest.json left 
In *The Home of the Heron,* Inness shows us a golden view of Florida, complete with a soft brush of trees and tall grass. The style of this painting is much smoother in texture than that of *The Marine*, much less rigid and sharp. The brush strokes are blended together to create a foggy glow and a much more calming sensation. The heron is surrounded by a glow of orange, and is portrayed as a silhouette standing tall with wings extended and beak pointing upward, showing us how majestic and powerful nature is. The overall tone of the portrait is quiet, calm stillness in nature in contrast to the energetic, roaring ocean portrayed in *The Marine.* The color palette is also opposite, with oranges, browns, and yellows being the uplifting choice as opposed to the blues, greys, and black brooding over the sea.
#The Hudson River School and Industrial Revolution
.ve-video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1khRXHZaMb4
Landscape paintings in the United States during the Industrial Revolution were meant to embrace the natural beauty that was presented to the American people during a time of modernity and change. The Hudson River School was a movement of lanscape artists who collectively believe in this romanticism of nature, and heavily believed that these paintings were a reflection of God's work. George Inness was a part of this movement, and *The Lackawanna Valley* is one painting that clearly emphasizes the tension between industrialization and naturalism during this time, which could be relevant today. 
#People and Nature
.ve-media https://api.artic.edu/api/v1/artworks/65353/manifest.json
As the storm rolls in, the only person in the painting lays down in a relaxed position and watches the clouds turn grey, unmoved by his sheep motioning toward him in a flee from the hazard. Possibly, he sits in acceptance of his fate or without a care; on the other hand, it can be that he is posed in awe of the power that nature holds above him. His disposition of relaxation is the same as the man in *The Lackawanna Valley* while the noisy train rushes towards him, functioning the same as the weather in *The Storm.* 
.ve-media https://api.artic.edu/api/v1/artworks/30701/manifest.json
Many Inness landscapes include a quaint agricultural setting, or a person out and about in nature. This promotes the romantic concept of living with nature rather than against it, as it is something that people are blessed with. 

.ve-media https://www.nga.gov/collection/art-object-page.30776.html 